# Competency Management System based on People Analytics

This is the code developed during my MBA in Data Science at USP. 

Abstract:
The labor market is changing rapidly and leading to a high obsolescence of the skills required to exercise it. Due to this situation, companies need to seek alternatives for management by competencies that are personalized and involve their employees. In this scenario, a challenge is to create a system that is able, through a well-defined process, to guide data-based skills development strategy. In this study, we propose a competency management system designed based on people analytics concepts. To exemplify the use of the system, we used real anonymized data from a QA team of a software development company. With these data, we explored various forms of visualization and applied descriptive, prescriptive and predictive statistical analysis, among which: outlier analysis (anomalies) considering interquartile range, Euclidean distance as a measure of dissimilarity for comparison, unsupervised modeling by K-Means (with Elbow method) and hierarchical clustering (with Dendrogram), dimensionality reduction using PCA (Principal Component Analysis), in addition to experiments using logistic regression and SVM. From the analysis carried out and the functionalities that the system provides, the team’s top technical and behavioral skills are discovered, in addition to the competence gap (difference between current and required competence). In this way, it is possible to create individual personalized development plans based on data, and not subjective analysis, in a very short time.
